Do you remember, the goal was to be able to also store my dynamically loaded content, especially the fonts
and the CSS files we're pulling in from CDNs for now.
Later of course we'll also implement all the other strategies we use in our own service worker file.
So how do we do that?
Let's go to our sw-base.js
file
and there let's enter some code after we initialize workbox, so that we can take advantage of it
but before we precache.
So here, I now want to set up my own routes for these dynamically loaded contents like fonts and so on.
To do this, I'll create a new route with the workboxSW package
we're setting up here and this not only has a precache method, it also has a router object,
that's probably the most important object this exposes to you. Router provides a register route method
and this is a very cool method.
Here you can pass an Express style route, so something like https://something.com and then a
slug or an ID,
so as you are used to routing from Express to handle different incoming requests or you pass a regular
expression,
that's what I'm going to do here
and I want to cache all requests going to googleapis or gstatic in the URL
because these two URLs are basically the ones I'm using here to load my fonts. The
regular expression can look like this.
I want to find googleapis or gstatic
in the URL we're sending the request to and they should then end with .com.
This is my regular expression
and as I just said, what this in the end will do is it will just parse any requests we make, it automatically
registers a fetch listener, we don't have to do that
but behind the scenes, it still has an event listener for fetch,
no worries,
it's no magic, it's just doing that behind the scenes.
So it will listen to any incoming request with its fetch listener and then run the or test the incoming
request against this regular expression which will return a hit if the URL we're sending a request to
contains googleapis.com or gstatic.com
and this makes sense because if you have a look at our application and open the network tab there, you
will see that the requests we're sending for the fonts are going to googleapis.com here or gstatic
if we want to get the actual icon set for the material icons.
So with that, we tell workbox on which request to act. The next argument is what it should do
and there we can also access the workboxSW object we initialized here at the top of this file basically
and reach out to the strategies object,
besides the router, another important object and let me put this a little more in the middle so it's
easier to see. Now on the strategies object, we can use the staleWhileRevalidate
strategy and execute it like a method.
Now what does this do?
staleWhileRevalidate will reach out to the cache to get that resource but also send a fetch request
and if that fetch request then returns, it will cache the updated resource.
So it's basically like our cache then network request with dynamic caching, staleWhileRevalidate is the
name of this strategy here.
So it's fetching all the assets dynamically, it stores them in the cache and then it tries to load them
from there first, which makes sure that it also works offline.
To this method here and keep in mind, you have to execute it,
you can pass a Javascript object to configure it,
I'll come back to the configuration options, for now I want to specify the cache name and you can set
up any name you want to use,
so here I'll store it in a Google fonts cache. Now that workbox is doing the heavy lifting for us,
it's very easy to manage multiple caches for different assets, which is easier to analyze for us at least,
easier to understand
and we don't have to worry about the things happening there,
everything is done automatically.
And just to really emphasize this, this does a lot of things behind the scenes.
It listens to fetch, it then sees if we can get this from the cache,
if not it makes a HTTP request
and if that returns, it stores the assets matching these requests in this cache,
lot of work done behind the scenes here.
So with that, we set up our own first route,
let's see if it works.
So first of all, let's rerun generate-sw to create this updated service worker. You'll see that in this
updated service worker, you also have your code
and then let's make sure with npm start running, that this works in our application.
So there I'll clear the storage to get rid of all the old data and reload the page, reload again to have
a chance for dynamic caching
and let's now inspect application cache storage. Refresh it,
you should see the Google font store and there, you actually see a lot of files including some pictures.
So that definitely shouldn't go in there,
it's because this also has Google APIs in the name, in the URL
but we're going to fix this,
no worries.
We also see our fonts there though and that already means that if we go to the service worker and go
offline, the styling is still missing but the font is indeed roboto here,
so this is working here in this place.
We also see that the icons are there, even though we can't do anything with it
because
the CSS style is still missing. So we already enhanced this,
we're pulling in our fonts dynamically now through our custom route
and again just because it's so important, this does a lot for us, as I see it already worked offline without
us registering any fetch listener or anything like that.
Now with that, we can add more routes to also make sure we store these image related to our posts correctly
and still, again implement our own strategy where we used indexedDB for the dynamic content.
This is also possible,
we're doing all these things over the next lectures.